Chris Stout
cstout6@gatech.edu
CS 3251 - A
Programming Assignment 1
9.25.15

Files:
remotebank-tcp.py - TCP client
remotebank-udp.py - UDP client
server-tcp.py - TCP Server
server-udp.py - UDP Server
README.txt - The readme file
sample.txt - A sample of terminal output generated using this application

Developed on Windows 10, Python 2.7.10

## Using the Project
	
* Download and cd into directory with two separate command prompts
* In the first, run "python server-<tcp|udp>.py", then enter "bank-server 8591" to run on port 8591 
* In the second, run "python remotebank-<tcp|udp>.py", thne enter a request with your specified params. Param overview, in order:
	* remotebank. Needed to ensure correct function 
	* <Server IP address>:<Remote port no.>. e.g. 127.0.0.1:8591
	* username. e.g. han
	* password. e.g. solo
	* operation. Either deposit or withdraw
	* amount. numerical amount to deposit or withdraw.
	** NOTE ** It is necessary that every parameter not have quotes around it. For instance, a proper request:
	* remotebank 127.0.0.1:8591 han solo deposit 10.0
* all parameters are required. If you wish to simply view your current account balance, just deposit or withdraw 0.

## Protocol

#### TCP
* The client and server create a connection, which is then used to send and receive data. The following is the logical order to the protocol:
* Initially, from the client, send "authentication request" to the server. Possible errors:
	* "invalid request": returned if this is not the initial message received from the server
* The server will reply with a randomized 64 character challenge. The client receives this then sends two messages:
	* The first is the username of who is accessing the bank. The server needs to know this in order to comput its own MD5 hash. Possible errors:
		* "invalid username": the user doesn't exist
	* Once it is confirmed that the user exists in the system, the client then sends an MD5 hash of username + password + challenge. "login success" message is returned if successful match. Possible errors:
		* "login failure": the hash sent from the client doesn't match the one generated by the server
* Once the user has been authenticated, the client sends an action message. This message includes the operation (either "deposit" or "withdraw") concatenated with ":" and the amount after that. Example "deposit:25.92". Possible errors:
	* "invalid action": the action message was not properly formed
	* "invalid amount": the string representing the amount could not be parsed to a float
	* "invalid operation": the string representing the operation was not either "deposit" or "withdraw"
	* "insufficient funds": more of a warning than an error. Happens when the amount requested to withdraw is greater than the current balance. Tells the user all remaining funds were withdrawn and that the current balance is now $0
* If no error, the client receives the new account balance and should inform the user the action was successful and what the new balance is
* The connection is terminated.

#### UDP